6.0 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6 minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Phil
And I'm Georgie
For me, there's nothing like reading a book.
I love turning the pages and the smell of the paper
But nowadays, the fact is that much of the time we read from electronic screens not paper
Yes, like Georgie, I love books
I also find that too much screen time hurts my eyes
But the availability of digital information means that they end up reading from screens most days
So apart from saw eyes, is this a problem?
Is reading from screens harmless or could it be damaging us in some way
Such as reducing our attention span
The length of time that someone can keep concentrated on what they are doing
That's what we'll be discussing in this program
And of course, we'll be learning some useful new vocabulary too
Great, but first, it's time for my question
Whether you prefer paper or screens as humans, we're now reading more words than ever before
So, how many words does the average person read a day?
Is it a 50,000 words?
Be 100,000 words or see 200,000 words
I guess it's 50,000 words a day
Okay, Georgie, we'll find out the correct answer later in the program
Of course, there's little doubt that any kind of reading is good for you
Here's Crescent a cow author of the How to Train Your Dragon children's books
Speaking with BBC ideas
Reading brings three magical powers
Creativity, intelligence and empathy
Reading for the joy of it is one of the two key factors in a kid's later economic success
You're more likely to not be in prison to vote to own your own home
All of these advantages and benefits happen as a result of lip-seat
Crescent talks about the importance of reading for the joy of it
When you do an activity for the joy of it, you do it simply for the pleasure of doing it
Rather than as a way to gain something else
Crescent lists the many benefits of reading for children
Including economic success in later life
But many of these benefits depend on a state known as deep reading
Analyzing attacks to understand its deep meaning
And in test after test, researchers have shown that deep reading skills develop better
When kids read from books
Professor Marianne Wolfe is a teacher and advocate for children's literacy around the world
Here she explains more about deep reading to BBC ideas
When we read at a surface level, we're just getting the information
When we read deeply, we use much more of our cerebral cortex
Deep reading means that we make analogies, we make inferences
Which allows us to be truly critical and a litic impactic human beings
The reality is it's not what or how much we read, but how we read that's really important
The very volume is having negative effects because to absorb that much
There's a propensity towards skimming
Professor Wolfe's research shows that reading from screens encourages reading at the surface level
Quickly and superficially looking at what can be easily understood
Reading books on the other hand, activates different areas of the brain
Allowing a reader to develop positive traits like empathy
And to understand the deeper level of a book, including analogies and inferences
Analyzing is a comparison between things that have similar features
For example, you might talk about the human heart using the analogy of a pump
An inference is a guess opinion or conclusion that you make based on the information you already have
For example, seeing smoke in the distance, you would make an inference that there's fire
It's these types of deeper, more subtle understanding that we get from reading books
So why is it that reading from screens doesn't develop these skills in the same way?
Well, the answer has to do with the volume
The sheer number of words, things, and notifications that screens bombard us with every day
Instead of deep reading, this encourages skimming, reading rapidly in order to get a general overview of something
I think it's time to reveal the answer to my question, Georgie
I asked you how many words does the average modern person read a day
And I guessed it was 50,000 words
Well, you were half right, in fact, the correct answer was double that
100,000 words
Right, let's recap the vocabulary we've learnt from this program
Starting with attention span, the length of time that someone can stay concentrated on one thing
If you do something for the joy of it, you do it simply for the pleasure you get
Rather than as a way to get something else
The phrase on the surface level describes looking at something quickly and superficially
Rather than trying to understand it's full deeper meaning
An analogy is a comparison between things that have similar features
For example, a human heart and a pump
And an inference is a guess or conclusion that you make
Based on the information you already have, like in Farring Fire from Seeing Smoke
And finally, skimming is reading rapidly in order to get a general overview of the text being read
Once again, ask six minutes or up, goodbye for now
Bye